# Project 1: Software Requirements Specification Document

This serves as a template for each projects' Software Requirements Specification (SRS) document. When filling this out, you will be required to create user stories, use cases, requirements, and a glossary of terms relevant to your project. Each group member must contribute to every section, so it is crucial that your group's GitHub repository shows a commit history that reflects the work of each group member. It is highly recommended that you create separate branches for each member, but since this is one single document, you will need to manually merge the branches together. It is also advisable to have multiple working versions of this document (named separately) so that one person can compile the final SRS document from the multiple working versions. Ultimately, how you go about managing this is up to you, but consistent formatting, clear commit messages, and a thorough commit history with contributions from each group member are required.

Fill the document out following the guidelines listed in each section. Maintain [proper Markdown syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/).

## Group Members

- [Gerardo Rodriguez](grodri29@uncc.edu)
- [Lucas Forsythe](mailto:lforsyt1@uncc.edu)
- [Name](mmailto:email@uncc.edu)
- [Name](mmailto:email@uncc.edu)

## Revisions

When a change is made to the document, a new revision should be created. The revision should be added to the table below with all information filled out.

| Version | Date | Description | Author | Reviewed By |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.0 | 03/22/23 | Initial draft | [David Gary](mailto:dgary9@uncc.edu) | [David Gary](mailto:dgary@uncc.edu) |
| 1.0 | 07/16/23 | p1.md draft | [Gerardo Rodriguez](grodri29@uncc.edu) | [Gerardo Rodriguez](grodri29@uncc.edu) |
| 1.0 | 07/16/23 | p1.md - format cleanup | [Lucas Forsythe](mailto:lforsyt1@uncc.edu) | [Lucas Forsythe](mmailto:lforsyt1@uncc.edu) |
| 1.1 | 07/16/23 | p1.md - my additions | [Lucas Forsythe](mailto:lforsyt1@uncc.edu) | [Lucas Forsythe](mailto:lforsyt1@uncc.edu) |


## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Constraints](#constraints)
4. [Use Cases](#use-cases)
5. [User Stories](#user-stories)
6. [Glossary](#glossary)




## Introduction
This project aims to develop a user-friendly online store written in python for the backend developement and flask for the framework.
Our platform allows customers to easily browse, select, and purchase a diverse range of fresh and organic fruits and vegetables providing an easy shopping experience.
## Requirements



Each group member must supply at least three functional requirements for the project. Each requirement should be written in the following format:

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the requirement. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like REQ-1, REQ-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A short description of the requirement. This should be a single sentence that describes the requirement. Do not replace the word `Description` with the actual description. Put the description in the space where these instructions are written. Maintain that practice for all future sections.
  - **Type:** The type of requirement. Should be either `Functional` or `Non-Functional`.
  - **Priority:** The priority of the requirement. This should be a number between 1 and 5, with 1 being the highest priority and 5 being the lowest priority.
  - **Rationale:** A short description of why the requirement is important. This should be a single sentence that describes why the requirement is important.
  - **Testing:** A short description of how the requirement can be tested. This should be a single sentence that describes how the requirement can be tested.
- **ID:** A unique identifier for the requirement. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like REQ-1, REQ-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A short description of the requirement. This should be a single sentence that describes the requirement.
  - **Type:** The type of requirement. Should be either `Functional` or `Non-Functional`.
  - **Priority:** The priority of the requirement. This should be a number between 1 and 5, with 1 being the highest priority and 5 being the lowest priority.
  - **Rationale:** A short description of why the requirement is important. This should be a single sentence that describes why the requirement is important.
  - **Testing:** A short description of how the requirement can be tested. This should be a single sentence that describes how the requirement can be tested.
- **ID** REQ-1
	- **Description** The store logo is to be displayed accross the website
	- **Type** Non-Functional
	- **Priority** 4
	- **Rationale** To provide identity to the website and help customers recognize the brand
	- **Testing** This feature is to be tested manually when opening the website
- **ID** REQ-2
	- **Description** The website allows the customer to select a quantity of a product
	- **Type** Functional
	- **Priority** 1
	- **Rationale** A customer wants a specific quantity of each product
	- **Testing**In the cart section, the quantity of each product selected must be reflected
- **ID** REQ-3
	- **Description** The system will section each product category for the user to identify between fruits, vegetables, seeds, and other groceries products.
	- **Type** Functional
	- **Priority** 2
	- **Rationale** This features helps the user navigate throught different product categories to help them find what they need easily.
	- **Testing** Using the category buttons to navigate the website veryfying that each product is in its correct category/section.
- **ID** REQ-4
	- **Description** The system will track the price and number of products in inventory, and display an "out of stock" message when products are unavailable.
	- **Type** Functional
	- **Priority** 1
	- **Rationale** This feature allows the website to ensure that products ordered by the user are in stock and fulfilled properly. 
	- **Testing** Automated tests adding and subtracting various numbers of items from the database, and then ensuring the front-end displays the stock correctly via web scraping.
- **ID** REQ-5
	- **Description** The system will keep track of registered user's carts, even between browsing sessions.
	- **Type** Functional
	- **Priority** 3
	- **Rationale** This feature allows users to add items they may wish to buy in the future to a cart and then have those items persist so that they may remember them at a later date.
	- **Testing** Manual testing, via logging in, adding an item to the cart, logging out, logging back in, and checking that the item is saved in the cart.
- **ID** REQ-6
	- **Description** The system will allow users to filter items by price point.
	- **Type** Functional
	- **Priority** 4
	- **Rationale** This feature allows users to more quickly find products that fit their budget.
	- **Testing** Manual testing of related UI elements.

## Constraints

In this section, you should list any constraints that you have for the project. Each group member must supply at least two constraints. These can be constraints on the project itself, the software system, or the stakeholders. Constraints can be anything that limits the scope of the project. For example, that this project's template code is written using Flask and Python constitutes a constraint on the backend of the project. Constraints can also be things like the required timeline of the project. Be creative.


1. Mobile responsiveness, we have to ensure that the website is optimized for mobile use, displaying accurately accross different screen sizes, providing the same performance as its desktop counterpart.
2. Interface design, using a three color pallette for the website design.
3. All interactions between the front-end website and the back-end database should be clearly documented.
4. Group members should communicate which files/features they are working on in advance, in order to avoid merge conflicts due to multiple people working on the same files at the same time.


## Use Cases

In this section, you should list use cases for the project. Use cases are a thorough description of how the system will be used. Each group member must supply at least two use cases. Each use case should be written in the following format:					

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the use case. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like UC-1, UC-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A description of the use case that gives the user a high-level overview of how the system is interacted with.
  - **Actors:** A list of the actors that are involved in the use case. Only include the actors that are directly involved. Actors are the people or things that interact with the system. For example, when ordering at a fast food restaurant, one might have the following actors: the customer, the cashier, and the cook. But only the customer and the cashier are directly involved in the use case of ordering food. The cook is not directly involved in the use case of ordering food.
  - **Preconditions:** A list of the preconditions for the use case. This should be a list of the preconditions for the use case, which are the conditions that must be met before the use case can be executed. Continuing with the restaurant example, the customer must have money in their wallet and the cashier must be logged in to the system before the use case of ordering food can be executed.
  - **Postconditions:** A list of the postconditions for the use case. This should be a list of the postconditions for the use case, which are the conditions that must be met after the use case has been executed. Continuing with the restaurant example, the customer must have their food and the cashier must have the customer's money after the use case of ordering food has been executed.

- **ID** UC-1
	- **Description** The customer navigates through the different product categories to find the specific products that they want
	- **Actors** Customer, Online grocery store
	- **Preconditions**  
		- The customer has in mind what type of product they want to browse from the virtual store.
		- The online grocery stores has sections for each type of product (Vegetables, Fruits, Seeds)
	- **Postconditions** 
		- The customer finds the desired products from the online store.
		- The system diplayed the correct contents according to the prodct category.
- **ID** UC-2
	- **Description** The customer places an order for delivery
	- **Actors** Customer, Online grocery store
	- **Preconditions**  
		- The customer has logged into their personal account
		- The customer has its address information linked to their personal account
	- **Postconditions** 
		- The customer receives an order confirmation
		- The system stores the order information
- **ID** UC-3
	- **Description** The customer filters items by price in order to find items that fit their budget.
	- **Actors** Customer, Online grocery store
	- **Preconditions**  
		- The customer has the price in mind they want to filter by.
	- **Postconditions** 
		- The customer receives a page displaying only the products that match the price filter they entered.
- **ID** UC-4
	- **Description** The manager requests a sales data overview
	- **Actors** Manager, Online grocery store
	- **Preconditions**  
		- The manager has logged into their admin account.
		- The system has logged sales data to display.
	- **Postconditions** 
		- The manager receives a detailed report of product sales history.

## User Stories

In this section, you should list user stories for the project. User stories are a short description of how a user will be interacting with the system. Each group member must supply at least two user stories. Each user story should be written in the following format:

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the user story. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like US-1, US-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Type of User:** The type of user that the user story is for. This should be a single word that describes the type of user. For example, a user story for a customer might be `Customer` and a user story for an administrator might be `Admin`.
  - **Description:** A description of the user story that gives a narrative from that user's perspective. This can be any length, but it must paint the picture of what the user wants to do, how they intend to do it, why they want to, and what they expect to happen.
	 
- **ID** US-1
	- **Type of User:** Customer
	- **Description:** As I'm looking to buy tomato seeds for my harvest, I navigate through the product sections, after finsing the "Seeds" category, I click on it I expect to see the different types of seeds and choose one according to my specific needs.  
- **ID** US-2
	- **Type of User:** Administrator
	- **Description:** As I check to fulfill ongoing delivery orders and log in with the Administrator credentials, I can check the orders processed througout the day and I expect to see them sorted by priority order.
- **ID** US-3
	- **Type of User:** Manager
	- **Description:** As I log in to the manager account, I expect to be able to access historical sales data and current product inventory so that I know which products to prioritize restocking and which to consider replacing.
- **ID** US-4
	- **Type of User:** Forgetful Customer
	- **Description:** As I log into my account, I discover that I had the items I wanted to buy already saved in my cart from the last time I browsed the site. If I add more items to my cart, I expect them to persist if I log out of the website to go do something else.

## Glossary

In this section, you should list any terms that are used in the document that may not be immediately obvious to a naive reader. Each group member must supply at least one term. Each term should be written in the following format:


- **Term:** The term that is being defined. This should be a single word or phrase that is being defined.
  - **Definition:** A definition of the term. This should be a short description of the term that is being defined. This should be a single sentence that describes the term.

Try to only list terms that a naive user would not understand.

- **Term** Responsiveness
	- **Description** Web development approach that seeks to create websites that are accessible, functional and presentable on any device (desktop, smartphone, tablet, etc).
- **Term** Merge Conflict
	- **Description** When git attempts to merge two branches that have competing commits (two different sets of changes to one file, for instance), it creates a conflict that must be resolved manually by the user, who decides which changes to keep.

## Submission Details

- On Canvas, submit the following:
  - The URL to your group's GitHub repository, with the latest version of your code pushed to the `main` branch.
